---
layout: post
title: Notes for Gemini
mathjax: false
comments: false
share: false
tags: [binary, similarity detection, neural network]
---

Reading Notes for *Neural Network-based Graph Embedding for Cross-Platform Binary Code Similarity Detection* by Xiaojun Xu, Chang Liu, Qian Feng, Heng Yin, Le Song, Dawn Song.

<!--more-->
## Limitations of existing techniques (Genius)
1. Hard to adapt to different applications
    * Two pieces of binary code which differ in only a few instructions, in the application of plagiarism detection, they may be considered as similar,
    * but in the application of vulnerability search, they may be considered dissimilar.
2. The efficiency of all similarity detection approaches based on graph matching is bounded by the efficiency of the graph matching algorithms (such as bipartite graph matching).
3. (Genius) takes more than one week to re-train the model.
 
## Idea
* Deep neural networks
    * They can represent a binary analysis task.
        * Relies on as litter domain knowledge as possible.
    * Adaptive by design.
        * Can be trained with different data to fit into different application scenarios or tasks
    * Computing efficiently.
* Convert ACFG into an embedding.

## Advantages
1. Better accuracy
    * Does not rely on bipartite graph matching; evaluates the graphical representation as a whole.
    * The parameters in the neural network are automatically learned to maximuze the embedding objective.
2. Higher embedding efficiency
    * Computations can be parallelized.
    * Does not need inter-block attributes because the neural network model already incorporates the inter-block relation information into the embedding.
3. Faster offline training
    * Requires training for a constant number of epochs, each of which has a time complexity linear in the size of the training data.

## How
* Siamese architecture and embed the graph embedding network `Structure2vec` into it.
    * Using a default policy to generate a dataset.
    * Using this dataset to pre-train a task-independent graph embedding network.
    * The pre-trained model can be re-trained quickly in the presence of additional supervision to adapt to new application scenarios.


## Limitations of Gemini
1. Rely only on some statistical features, so some other informative features may get lost.