---
layout: post
title: Notes for FOSSIL
mathjax: false
comments: false
share: false
tags: [FOSS, FOSSIL, malware, binary, resilient, Bayesian]
---

Reading Notes for *FOSSIL: A Resilient and Efficient System for Identifying FOSS Functions in Malware Binaries* by SAED ALRABAEE, PARIA SHIRANI, LINGYU WANG, and MOURAD DEBBABI.

<!--more-->
## Limitations of existing techniques
1. Inaccuracy caused by different compilation settings.
2. High computational overhead.
3. Being vulnerable to obfuscation and refactoring techniques.

## Challenges
1. Usability: There is little advantage in returning a list of matches with low degrees of similarity using the existing approaches because of the effect of different compilers, compiler optimization and obfuscation techqiues. A resilient system should be able to identify the matched pairs with a controller process that can synthesize the available knowledge.
2. Efficiency: To efficiently extract, index, and match features from program binaries to detect a given target function within a reasonable time.
3. Robustness: extract robust features that would be less affected by different compilers, slight changes in the source code, as well as obfuscation techniques.
4. Scalability
5. Stability: When a new version of a FOSS package is released, the update process should be supported by a system that does not need to re-index the whole package.

## Overview
1. Preprocessing: Normalize disassembled instructions.
2. Extracting: Extracts three features.
    1. Syntactical: opcode frequencies
        * Hidden Markov Model
        * Statistical test based on the chi-squared distance
    2. Semntic: node-node interaction from CFG (CFG-walks)
        * Hash Subgraph Pairwise
    3. Behavioral: distibution of most important opcodes
        * $z$-score for the most important opcdoe density histograms
3. Detecting
    1. HMM
    2. HSP
    3. $z$-score
4. Integrating: The results of these detection methods are itegrated using a Bayesian network model.

## How
1. Normalization
    * Why
        * Each assembly instruction in x86 architecture consists of a mnemonic and a sequence of up to three operands.
        * The operands can be classified into three categories: memory references, registers, and constant values.
        * Two fragments of a code may be both structurally and syntactically identical, but differ in terms of memory references, or registers, due to the effect of compilers and compilation settings, for instance.
    * How
        * $V$: contant values
        * $M$: memory references
        * registers can be generalized according to the various levels of normalization.
2. Opcode
    * Only consider the top-ranked opcodes: feature ranking based on mutual information
3. CFG-walks
    * Why
        * CFG has no intervening control transfer instruction.
        * CFG might change, for instance, due to the effect of compilers and optimization settings.
    * How
        * Decompose a CFG into a set of walks, taking into consideration the interactions within these walks
4. Opcode Frequency Distribution
    * FOSS functions performing the same task usually exhibit similar distributions of opcodes.
    * The area under a frequency distribution curve is always 1.
    * The distibution of various opcodes conforms to a consistent distribution shape when it is related to a specific FOSS function, even if the function is modified, since the semantics will be preserved and may be discovered by the distribution.

## Performance
* A mean precision of 0.95 and with
* a mean recall of 0.85.
* 15s for small applications with 650 functions,
* 58.6s for large applications with 250,000 functions.

## Limitations of FOSSIL
1. Function Inlining: additional complexity.
2. Multiple Architecture: only x86.
3. Type Inference: not considered.
4. Advanced Obfuscation: the binary code under analysis is assumed to be unpacked.
5. Dataset Size: How to automate gathering, compiling, and indexing FOSS packages. Each FOSS may have its unique dependencies, which makes automating the process difficult.
6. Does not annotate each function to the source repository(improvement).