---
layout: post
title: Notes for BINARM
mathjax: false
comments: false
share: false
tags: [vulnerabilities, firmware, IED, detection]
---

Reading Notes for *BINARM: Scalable and Efficient Detection of Vulnerabilities in Firmware Images of Intelligent Electronic Devices* by Paria Shirani, Leo Collard, Basile L. Agba, Bernard Lebel, Mourad Debbabi, Lingyu Wang, and Aiman Hanna.

<!--more-->
## Limitations of existing techniques
1. Applicability: lack sufficient domain knowledge specific to smart grids and IEDs.
    * No prior knowledge about the scope.
    * No additional effort to gather and analyse the relevant IED firmware images.
    * No study on the used libraries in the IED firmware images.
2. Scalability: rely on expensive operations.
3. Adaptability: need to handl the presence of a new CVE and efficiently indexing it.
 
## How
1. Build a large-scale vulnerability database consisting of common vulnerabilities in IED firmware images.
    1. Identify relevant manufacturers;
    2. Collect and analyze the corresponding IED firmware images;
    3. Identify the used libraries in these images;
    4. Compile the list of CVE vulnerabilities.
2. Design a detection engine that employs three increasingly complex stages in order to speed up the process by filtering out mismatched candidates as early as possible.
    * Similar functions have similar execution paths.
3. Provide a similarity score as prior efforts, also presents in-depth details to justify the results of the matching and to assist reverse engineers for further investigation.

## Multi-stage Dection Engine
1. Function Shape-Based Detection
    1. Feature Extraction
        * Structural features
        * Instruction-level features: syntax and semantic information of a function
        * Statistical features: semantics of a function
    2. Normalization
    3. Feature Selection: mutual information
        * effectiveness: first three top-ranked features
    4. Function Matching
    5. Threshold Selection: $K$-Means clustering
2. Branch-Based Detection
    1. Weighted Normalized Tree Distance
    2. Mnemonic Instructions Grouping: instruction mnemonics carry information about the semantics of a function.
    3. Weight Assignments
    4. Finding the Best Match
3. Fuzzy Matching-Based Detection
    1. Fuzzy match
        1. Longest path extraction
        2. Path exploration
        3. Neighbourhood exploration
    2. Basic Block Mathcing

## Limitations of BINARM
1. Not support function inlining
2. only ARM architecture
3. Did not consider type inference
4. No runtime execution semantics checking