---
layout: post
title: Notes for Genius
mathjax: false
comments: false
share: false
tags: [bug, firmware, maching learning, graph encoding]
---

Reading Notes for *Scalabe Graph-based Bug Search for Firmware Images* by Qian Feng, Rundong Zhou, Chengcheng Xu, Yao Cheng, Brian Testa, and Heng Yin.

<!--more-->
## Limitations of existing techniques
1. Scalability: the bottlenect for the CFG-based bug search techniques is not about the graph matching algorithm, but rather the search scheme. These techniques conduct pairwise graph matching for search, the complexity of which makes them unusable in large-scale datasets.
 
## Idea
* Convert the CFGs into high-level numeric feature vectors.

## How
1. Raw features extraction: extract the attributed control flow graph from a binary function.
    * Statistical: IDA Pro
        * String constants
        * Numeric constants
        * Number of transfer instructions
        * Number of calls
        * Number of instructions
        * Number of arithmetic instructions
    * Structural: IDA Pro
        * Number of offspring
        * Betweeness
    * No Semantic because it's expensive
2. Codebook generation: utilize unsupervised learning methods to learn higher-level categorizations from raw attributed control flow graphs.
    1. Raw feature similarity
        * Consider similarity computation as a labeled graph matching problem: bipartite graph matching
    2. Clustering
        * Unsupervised learning algorithm
        * Codebook generation is expensive, but it's an offline and one-time effort.
3. Feature encoding: encode the attributed control flow by learned categorizations into higher-level feature vector residing in the high-dimensional space.
    * Why
        * Better tolerate the variation of a function across different architectures
        * Can be conveniently indexed and searched
    * How
        * Bag-of-feature encoding: maps a graph to some centroids in the codebook, represents each function as a bag of features
        * VLAD encoding
4. Online search: given a function, online search aims at efficiently finding its most similar functions.
    * Scalability: LSH

## Limitations of Genius
1. Cannot handle obfuscated code.
2. Heavily relies on the quality of CFG extraction.
3. Impacted by function inlining.
4. The accuracy is affected by the size of CFG.